Linux commands - (ls)


*ls
Description: List files and directories in the current directory (non-hidden).
Remark: Does not show hidden files (those starting with .).*

1. ls --help
Description: List information about the FILEs (the current directory by default).
Remark: Useful for beginners or when you need a refresher on less commonly used options.

Options:
  -a, --all                  do not ignore entries starting with .
  -A, --almost-all           do not list implied . and ..

2. ls- a
Description: Lists all files, including hidden files (starting with .).
Remark: Useful for checking hidden files.

$ ls -a
.  ..  .bashrc  .git  .hidden_file  Documents  Downloads  file.txt  script.sh

3. ls -A
Description: Lists all entries in a directory except for the special entries . (current directory) and .. (parent directory).
Remark:It's a cleaner alternative to ls -a when navigating hidden files.

4. ls -b
Description: Display directory contents while escaping special characters in file names using backslash notation.
Remark: Helpful when filenames contain non-printable characters, spaces, tabs, or symbols.

5. ls -B
Description:lists the contents of a directory excluding backup files
Remark:to avoid clutter from temporary or backup files

6. ls -c
Description: Sort by and show the last status change time
Remark: Useful for tracking changes like permission updates

7. ls -C
Description: Display entries in columns
Remark: Good for compact, human-readable output

8. ls -d
Description: Show directory names only, not their contents.
Remark:Essential when you want to list a directory itself, not what's inside it.

9. ls -D
Description:
Remark:

10. ls -f
Description: List all files without sorting, includes . and ...
Remark: Faster for large directories or scripting

11 .ls -F
Description: Append a symbol to entries: / for dirs, * for executables
Remark: Very helpful for visually distinguishing file types at a glance.

12. ls -g
Description: Like -l, but omit the owner and show only group.
Remark: Useful in multi-user environments where only group info is relevant.

13. ls -G 
Description: Enable colorized output
Remark: Helps differentiate file types

14. ls -h
Description: With -l, print human-readable file sizes
Remark: Makes size information easier to read than raw byte

15. ls -H
Description: Follow symbolic links on the command line only
Remark: Useful when you want the actual target info

16. ls -i
Description: Show inode numbers for each file
Remark: Helps identify hard links

17. ls -I
Description: Ignore files matching the given pattern
Remark: Handy for hiding clutter like temporary or backup files without deleting them.

18. ls -k
Description: Show file sizes in kilobytes
Remark: Standardizes size output

19. ls -l
Description: Long listing format: shows permissions, owner, size, date
Remark: most used options for detailed file info.

20. ls -L
Description: Follow all symbolic link
Remark: Useful when working with symlinked directories or files

21. ls -m
Description: List entries separated by commas.
Remark: Useful for compact, one-line display

22. ls -n
Description: Like -l, but show numeric user and group IDs instead of names.
Remark: Helpful for system admins debugging permission

23. ls -N
Description: Do not escape special characters in filenames.
Remark: Good for viewing exact file names as-is

24. ls -o
Description: Like -l, but omit group information
Remark: Useful when only owner info matters

25. ls -p
Description: Append a / to directory names.
Remark: Handy for quickly distinguishing directories from files in plain listings.

26. ls -q
Description: Show non-printable characters as ? in filenames
Remark: Avoids terminal issues caused by unprintable or corrupt filenames.

27. ls -Q
Description: Enclose file names in double quotes.
Remark: Makes filenames with spaces or special characters

28. ls -r
Description: Reverse the sort order.
Remark: Use with other options (like -t or -S) for reversed time or size sorting.

29. ls -R
Description: Recursively list directories and their contents.
Remark: Great for viewing an entire directory tree.

30. ls -s
Description: Show file size in blocks
Remark: Useful for checking actual disk usage of files

31. ls -S
Description: Sort files by size, largest first
Remark: Perfect for quickly finding large files in a directory.

32. ls -t
Description: Sort by modification time, newest first.
Remark: Commonly used to see recently changed files.

33. ls -T
Description: With -l, don’t truncate long time fields.
Remark: Shows full timestamp, useful for logging or detailed comparisons.

34. ls -u
Description: Use last access time for sorting or displaying
Remark: Good for checking recently accessed files.

35. ls -v
Description: Natural sort of numbers within names
Remark: Makes numeric filenames sort intuitively

36. ls -w
Description: Set output width to N characters.
Remark: Helps format output for specific screen widths or printing needs.

37. ls -x
Description: List entries by lines, sorted across rather than down columns.
Remark: Alternative layout, sometimes easier to scan horizontally.

38. ls -X
Description: Sort files by extension.
Remark: Useful when organizing files by type

39. ls -Z
Description: Show SELinux security context for each file.
Remark: Crucial in SELinux-enabled systems for managing and troubleshooting security policies.

40. ls -1
Description: List one file per line.
Remark: Clean, script-friendly output—especially useful when piping filenames.
