Linux commands- tree

Tree understands the following command line switches:

--help
  Outputs a verbose usage listing.

--version
  Outputs the version of tree.

1. tree -a
  All files are printed. By default tree does not print hidden files (those beginning with a dot '.'). In no event does tree print the file system constructs '.' (current directory)
  and '..' (previous directory).

2. tree -d

  List directories only.

3. tree -f

  Prints the full path prefix for each file.

4. tree -i
  
  Makes tree not print the indentation lines, useful when used in conjunction with the -f option.

5. tree -l

  Follows symbolic links if they point to directories, as if they were directories. Symbolic links that will result in recursion are avoided when detected.

6. tree -x

  Stay on the current file-system only. Ala find -xdev.

7. tree -P pattern
  List only those files that match the wild-card pattern. Note: you must use the -a option to also consider those files beginning with a dot '.' for
  matching. Valid wildcard operators are '*' (any zero or more characters), '?' (any single character), '[...]' (any single character listed between brackets
  (optional - (dash) for character range may be used: ex: [A-Z]), and '[^...]' (any single character not listed in brackets) and '|' separates alternate patterns.

8. tree -I pattern
  Do not list those files that match the wild-card pattern.

9. tree --noreport
  Omits printing of the file and directory report at the end of the tree listing.

10. tree -p
  Print the file type and permissions for each file (as per ls -l).

----------------------Part 2---------------------

Linux commands- ifconfig, ping, traceroute, nmap, mkdir

1. ping

  Purpose: Checks network connectivity between your computer and another host (e.g., a website or IP).
  How it works: Sends ICMP echo requests and waits for replies.
  Example:ping google.com
  Output: Shows time delay, packet loss, etc.

2. ifconfig (deprecated in some systems)

  Purpose: Displays or configures network interface settings (IP address, MAC address, etc.).
  Example:ifconfig
  Note: On modern Linux systems, use ip addr instead .

3. traceroute

  Purpose: Shows the path (hops) that packets take to reach a destination.
  Example:traceroute google.com
  Use case: Diagnose where a connection is slowing down or failing.

4. nmap

  Purpose: Scans networks or hosts for open ports and services.
  Example:nmap 192.168.1.1
  Use case: Network security auditing, detecting devices.

5. mkdir

  Purpose: Creates a new directory (folder).
  Example:mkdir new_folder
  
  
  Flags:
  
  -p: Create parent directories if they don't exist.
